---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: Project Evaluations"
---

So far, the projects I've looked at myself (Lichess, Calibre, Open Energy Dashboard) haven't seemed super beginner friendly. Some of them seem a little intimidating, or hard to find something to contribute to without prior knowledge. The big projects I've looked at seem intimidating in that there are so many people clamoring to contribute that it seems hard to find easy, beginner-friendly ways to contribute that haven't already been done, while the small projects I've looked at seem not very well maintained or not very active. I haven't looked very in-depth at many projects yet, though, so hopefully I'll be able to find a good middle-ground project at some point.

<!--more-->

Lichess and Calibre, for example, had a lot of issues that felt hard for me to understand or know where to start on contributing. Both projects also seemed to be maintained by one very active maintainer, and while it's good to have an active maintainer, they seemed to deal with most issues on their own, which makes it feel difficult to contribute if the maintainers can just solve issues much quicker by themselves. I didn't look too deeply into the actual code of these projects though, so maybe they aren't as intimidating as they seem.

## Challenges

Right now, I'm anticipating that finding issues that I can actually contribute to will be the biggest challenge. The "good first issue" tag on a lot of projects I've seen so far seems pretty underutilized, with only a couple issues actually being tagged with it. Hopefully that's only because few people think to actually tag issues with that, and there are more beginner-friendly issues than what's in those tags. I think I could also overcome this by finding and reporting my own small issues, or suggesting/implementing new small features instead.

I also anticipate that it'll be difficult to have the confidence to actually jump into an active project that I'm not familiar with to make contributions. I think I'll probably find it intimidating to interact with people in issue trackers, forums, or chat channels, and I'll probably be afraid to make mistakes or seem foolish in my newness. I think the only way to overcome this is to actually do it though, and to find a community where I can be sure that I won't be looked down on for being a beginner.