---
layout: post
title: "Week 1: Introduction to Open Source"
---

When I hear "open source," I tend to think of free access and communities of people who work to give this free access (to software, knowledge, tools, etc.) to the world. It's a kind of ideology/movement that I really admire, and I do believe that software should be free and accessible to whoever wants to use it. I can definitely see some downsides, however; open source projects need people to work on them, typically for free or subsisting off of donations, and it can be really difficult to find people to put time into that in a society where you need to make money to live. But on the upside, when the project is open to the entire world, there are more people who are able to access it and work on it, unlike closed source. I decided to register for a course on open source software development because I wanted to learn how I could contribute to these projects, and also because it seemed like a more hands-on and fun way to improve my software development skills.

<!--more-->

My current favorite open source software is **Firefox**; I used to exclusively use Google Chrome as my browser, but a couple years ago I switched to Firefox out of a distrust of Chrome's privacy practices and its attempts to limit usage of certain browser extensions like adblockers. I trust Firefox far more as an open source project kept up by people who want to make it better for the sake of its users, and not to profit off of users by selling data to advertisers and whatnot. 

Another open source project I use regularly is **Wikipedia**. Growing up, teachers in school always tried to warn me off of using it, insisting that it's unreliable or inaccurate because of its open source nature, but it's a great and accessible resource for knowledge, and I think its open source policies are a benefit in its widespread sources of knowledge and constant upkeep.

The **Internet Archive** is an open source project that has been a lifesaver for me many times. Things on the internet can be so easily erased, changed, or lost, so having such a huge archive dedicated to internet preservation that can be updated by anyone who wants to do so is incredibly important. I've used it mainly for its website history, for purposes of fact checking, saving resources, and sometimes just nostalgia.

**Calibre** is an open source program I've used frequently for reading and organizing ebooks on my computer, which I found surprisingly difficult to do if they're not PDFs. It's been very helpful for me for reading books and textbooks for classes.

There are other open source projects I've used and have been grateful for, but not all of them frequently or recently, like **Eclipse**, **Audacity**, **OBS**, etc.