---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: Open Source in Business"
---

## Open Source in Industries

It was interesting to learn through this week's videos and guest speaker about the use of open source in businesses, especially because I used to consider the two to be mutually exclusive things. I thought of open source as free and open in a way that is diametrically opposed to industry, while industry is exclusively closed source, but it makes sense that businesses would make use of open source as well, since it is open for use by anyone. 

<!--more-->

I thought it was interesting to learn about how businesses can and will use open source to actually work with competitors, because despite being competing companies they still face the same issues that they need to solve, and working together to do so ends up benefitting everyone, including consumers. This was a benefit of open source that was brought up for both the film industry and banking, where things like Zelle and the ease of transferring money across bank accounts in different banks is due to the use of open source. 

## Group Project Progress

My group, which is working on Godot, is continuing to make progress on contributions, branching out into new kinds of contributions like contributing to and porting demos. We've encountered difficulties when it comes to making code contributions or working on issues, where it seems like proposals are difficult to get approved and issues tend to be either too complex or quickly solved by others. I also found it difficult to contribute to the code when I didn't feel like an expert in how the engine itself works, so I focused on following demos to become more comfortable with the engine and how I can contribute to it, making notes on how I can contribute to those demos as well as I did so. 

My next contribution goal is to write benchmarks for 2D particles, which I think will require me to follow more demos to understand how those particles work, and also take a careful look at other people's benchmarks to understand how to make one, since I have no experience in that area. It may take me a while to actually complete this contribution, so while I work on it I hope to also continue making small documentation contributions and perhaps also contrbute by testing issues and commenting on them.