---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: Tidepool Presentation"
---

## Christopher Snider Presentation

I found Christopher Snider's presentation on Tidepool and open source approaches to make diabetes more manageable very interesting. Discussions about open source in enterprise felt to me like they were focused mainly on consumers or profit, but Tidepool's open source policies seem to me to be very focused on social good, in benefiting the lives of people with diabetes in an open way so that the people actually affected are able to access it, understand it, and potentially contribute themselves, which is what I find to be the most interesting and admirable aspect of open source.

<!--more-->

I was also interested to learn how Tidepool's technology worked to accurately dose insulin, with the loops between the app, device, pump, etc. Christopher's point that the FDA is not the enemy also surprised me, because while I didn't consider the FDA specifically to be the enemy of insulin access for people with diabetes, I did always consider some nebulous government entity to be the enemy of that, but it makes sense that the FDA is more of a safety and regulation entity than an oppressive healthcare barrier.

## Group Project Progress

Our group is still trying to find more ways to contribute to Godot, especially through coding contributions. I have mostly completed my benchmark contribution to Godot, and am now waiting for confirmation from maintainers about a few questions before I make my pull request. Now I am looking to see what else I can contribute, because while working on benchmarks was a satisfying code contribution and felt like it helped familiarize me with the engine more, it doesn't feel like a contribution to the core engine itself or main repo, and I'd love to be able to make a contribution towards that. 

Our group was previously running into problems finding issues or proposals we could contribute to that weren't too advanced, quickly resolved, or considered unnecessary by maintainers, and so we attempted to pivot to contributing to plugins and demos, but we are now running into problems such as those projects not being very active, and thus our comments and pull requests aren't being responded to. We may attempt to look for other more active plugins, or go back to seeing what contributions we could make to the main engine.

On an individual level, I think I am continuing to run into the obstacle of not being confident enough to contribute or participate in the community. I've looked through issues seeing what I could test and comment on, and thought of different small pull requests like documentation PRs I could do on top of my bigger PRs, but I continue to run into doubts about whether those comments or PRs would be in any way helpful or necessary, and whether they would actually be acknowledged or merged. I'll just have to continue pushing through that doubt and make the contributions despite it.