---
layout: post
title: "Week 14: Open Source And..."
---
## Project Presentations

This week my group presented our contributions to Godot, which felt like a satisfying culmination of the progress we've made this semester, although maybe not a permanent conclusion, as I may continue attempting to contribute to Godot in the future on my own. It was fun to see the presentations of the other groups, and learn how they approached each of their projects in similar or different ways than us.

<!--more-->

I found Spicetify to be a particularly interesting presentation, because I felt like I could potentially find their contribution useful, since I use Spotify and I liked the visuals they created for their custom Spotify theme. My group worked on our contributions mainly individually, helping each other out but mainly working on small things separately, so it was interesting to see a group that worked on one or two big contributions together, which seemed to be fruitful for them.

I also found the introduction to Bitwarden interesting, because I've been meaning to start using a password manager, and so learning about an open source one that I could potentially use was interesting, as well as learning about the things they did and didn't like about it, like the lack of communication about development. freeCodeCamp, too, is a service I could see myself using, so learning about what the contribution side of it is like was enlightening.

It was really interesting to hear about all the different groups' challenges they faced, and the things they learned from those challenges. It was reassuring to learn about struggles that other people faced that I could relate to, like struggles communicating with a project community, and to know my group wasn't alone in these challenges. It was also eye-opening to learn about challenges I couldn't relate to, at least for this particular project, but I could see myself facing with other projects, and to learn how I might overcome them if I did face them, like the group that hit a wall with Brave being mainly closed off to its employees for contributions, but was able to switch tracks to a different project once they realized this.