---
layout: post
title: "Week 10: Group Project Progress"
---

So far my group has been making good progress on our contributions to Godot Engine. We've each made one pull request, two documentation PRs and one benchmark PR, one of which has been merged so far. We're also always brainstorming different kinds of contributions we can make, such as commenting on issues and pull requests, making benchmarks, or working on plugins or demo projects. 

<!--more-->

## My Pull Request

My pull request was a documentation PR, adding some clarifying instructions and a screenshot for a part of the engine's online tutorial that I thought could use better clarity when I was going through it myself. It hasn't received any response yet in the week since I opened it, however, and I'm not sure what further steps I should take to get it merged, so for now I'm just focusing on what other contributions I can make. 

I wonder if the lack of response is due to the fact that my PR wasn't attached to any issue but was just an enhancement I wanted to add; the contributing instructions for documentation don't specify that you have to open an issue, but I think from here on out I might try to focus on existing issues to see if that will increase my chances of getting my pull request merged. However, issues seem to be closed fairly quickly by more experienced contributors, and by the time I figure out how I might contribute to an issue, it's often already been resolved. There also isn't much of an issue claiming system in place, although it might help to make a comment that I want to try to work on an issue to prevent this.

## Future Contributions

We found that it's a bit difficult to contribute to the main code base, because the maintainers want to keep it small and any enhancements that aren't considered necessary or wanted by a lot of people will likely not be merged, so we're pivoting to focusing on contributing to benchmarks, plugins, and demos. I think my next step might be to focus on making benchmarks, since it seems the most doable. I don't have any experience making benchmarks, but it seems like something I could learn through their examples, and it seems like a good place to start with code contributions. I also want to keep working through Godot's tutorials to continue familiarizing myself with the engine, since I think there's a lot I need to learn about how it works before I can make meaningful contributions. 