---
layout: post
title: "Week 7: History and Group Project Beginnings"
---

## Origins of Free/Open Source

It was enlightening to learn about some of the history behind free/open source in lecture this week. It was particularly interesting to learn about and research significant people in FOSS, such as Richard Stallman, the creator of GNU and the Free Software Foundation, and Jimmy Wales, the cofounder of Wikipedia. My group researched Karen Sandler, a lawyer and the executive director of Software Freedom Conservacy. I never really think of lawyers when I think of open source, so it was interesting to learn about the law side of open source and the ways that people like Karen Sandler have attempted to make FOSS more ethical and accessible to people.

<!--more-->

It was also interesting to hear about and read through the bios that others in class researched, especially the "interesting facts" part, like Linus Torvalds' very blunt mailing lists. I was simultaneously surprised and unsurprised to learn that Richard Stallman was very political; it makes sense that open source, in its emphasis on freedom, would have political origins, although the fact that he resigned from MIT for making (what I assume were) insensitive comments did surprise me.

## Group Project Start

This week we started our group projects, and my group discovered that we all have an interest in game development, so we decided to pick Godot Engine, an open source game engine, as our project. We looked at some other game development-adjacent projects before settling on Godot, such as Raylib and p5, since Godot seemed like a big and intimidating project that we weren't sure we would be able to contribute to meaningfully. However, we ultimately decided that Godot would be the most satisfying and rewarding for us to contribute to if we could manage to do so, and we felt reassured that it had a fairly welcoming and beginner-friendly community, with lots of documentation for new contributors.

After working out meeting times (a regular meeting time on Tuesday and a tentative extra meeting on any weekend morning that we might be available) and selecting our project in class, we began setting up the development environment on our individual machines and looking at potential issues and other avenues where we might be able to contribute. We also all walked through Godot tutorials in our own time to familiarize ourselves more with the engine. We met up on Sunday to discuss, confirm that we had all set up the development environment, and come up with further plans for contributions. I'm happy with the progress we've made so far, and I'm looking forward to continuing to work with my group!