---
layout: post
title: "Week 14: Open Source And..."
---

## Non-Software Open Source

This week's discussion on non-software areas of open source was really interesting. One of the topics that stood out to me the most was "Free Beer", the open source recipe for beer. It's a fun spin on open source ideologies, to have a recipe that can be accessed and updated by anyone, and it's interesting to think of open source being applied to physical things like a drink.

<!--more-->

Another one that stood out to me was Dungeons and Dragons, which I had never really thought of as open source before, but thinking about it now it really is, since the game can be freely accessed and modified to the creativity of anyone playing it. I'd never really thought about the open source licensing that allows people to play D&D, change the game however they want, and even record themselves playing and publish that recording for money, the way shows like Critical Role and Dimension 20 do.

## Group Project

On Monday our group is presenting our project, so this week we focused mainly on preparing our presentation. Together we created slides, prepared what we would say and who would say what, and practiced presenting. We also timed ourselves practicing our presentation, and on our first attempt we ended up at around 30 minutes, so we cut down parts of the presentation we felt weren't as necessary to get it down to 20 minutes.

I also made a PR to make small refactoring code changes for the open source Godot game Libre Aim in order to align with the GDScript Style Guide, according to an issue that a maintainer made. It helped me familiarize myself with the code base and how the game works, so that hopefully I can contribute to it in more meaningful ways in the future. 